README.md, before:

# IBM-i-pipeline
This is intended to give a guideline on using a modern [IBM I](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IBM_i) Pipeline.
Some knowledge about [ILE](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Integrated_Language_Environment), [PASE](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IBM_i#PASE), Git and Linux is helpfull but not necessary. I'll make another repo for those.

Modern developments are usually done on Linux or Mac but most IBM I developer usually have a Windows OS and from that they connect to the Power([AS/400](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IBM_AS/400), iSeries) using [ACS](https://www.ibm.com/support/pages/ibm-i-access-client-solutions) (Access Client Solutions) with a [5250 Termianl emulator](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IBM_5250) over telnet.  

Once inside, the IBM I developer needs to do what he was created to do: Write some code; for that we have [SEU](https://www.nicklitten.com/course/what-is-seu-source-entry-utility/) (Source entry utility or stone age entry utility ), [RDI](https://www.nicklitten.com/module/rational-developer-rdi/) (Rational Developer for I) or (the modern one) [VsCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/). Nick Litten has a nice resume about this on his blog [
Windows Setup for IBM i Developers](https://www.nicklitten.com/windows-setup-ibm-developers/) 

Here, we take the Linux (Ubuntu) approach from Windows, using [WSL](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Windows_Subsystem_for_Linux) and VsCode.

What else do we need? Well, a Power Server, which  is actually a very important requirement. Since we don't have one or can't buy one, we will be using [PUB400](https://pub400.com/), which, luckily, is a free Power Server on the internet. 

Here is a list: 
- [WSL Ubuntu](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Windows_Subsystem_for_Linux)
- [ACS](https://www.ibm.com/support/pages/ibm-i-access-client-solutions)
- [VsCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/)
  - [Code for IBM I](https://codefori.github.io/docs/)
  - [IBM I project explorer](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=IBM.vscode-ibmi-projectexplorer)
  - [Remote WSL](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-wsl)
- [PUB400 User](https://pub400.com/cgi/signup.nd/start)


## Create repo

Just go to your github account and on the Repositories tab click New, create the new repo with a readme and maybe a MIT liscense if you feel like so.

Now open you WSL from VsCode using the Remote WSL plugin. Create a dir, cd into it.

```bash
mkdir $HOME/cool_ibm
cd $HOME/cool_ibm
```

For this part you need to have set up the github ssh keys. Clone the repo to the cool dir, cd into it and set up a vscode [workspace](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editing/workspaces/workspaces) (optional but is very useful).

```bash
git clone git@github.com:Your_User/Your_cool_repo.git
cd ./Your_cool_repo
```

That's it, you can do a ```git status``` to check.

## Create repo dir struct

We need a directory struct that let us have multiple ibm i projects inside the same git repo. Common sense stuff.

```bash
mkdir ./empty && mkdir ./simple && mkdir ./lil_complex
```

Add these folders to your workspace (File -> Add Folder to Workspace)

## Create empty project

So, this is the simplest ibm i project that you can make, no source code for now.

In the ibm i project explorer select the empty dir and create the configuration files, it automaitcally creates two files.

.gitignore
```bash
.logs
.evfevent
.env
```

.iproj.json
```json
{
  "description": "Empty project"
}
```

We actually don't need this .gitignore since we already have one in our repo but you can add the ignored extensions to that.

If you want to do it manually just create the iproj.json file inside a dir and the ibm i project explorer will detect it. That's it

### Commit changes

Now we need to sync the local changes with our github repo. This is the idea: Check what have changed, add it to the staged area, commit it and push it to your github repo. Very simple

```bash
git status # Take a peek
git add .  # Add all to the staged area
git commit -m "My cool ibm i project" # Commit the staged changes with a descriptive message
git push   # Send it to your github repo
```

## Create simple project

### Commit changes

### Compile

### Run

## Create lil_complex project

### Commit changes

### Compile

### Run

Commit message:

Create first source file
Signed-off-by: Roberto Torrez <robkraudy@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

# IBM-i-pipeline
This is intended to give a guideline on using a modern [IBM I](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IBM_i) Pipeline.
Some knowledge about [ILE](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Integrated_Language_Environment), [PASE](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IBM_i#PASE), Git and Linux is helpfull but not necessary. I'll make another repo for those.

Modern developments are usually done on Linux or Mac but most IBM I developer usually have a Windows OS and from that they connect to the Power([AS/400](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IBM_AS/400), iSeries) using [ACS](https://www.ibm.com/support/pages/ibm-i-access-client-solutions) (Access Client Solutions) with a [5250 Termianl emulator](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IBM_5250) over telnet.  

Once inside, the IBM I developer needs to do what he was created to do: Write some code; for that we have [SEU](https://www.nicklitten.com/course/what-is-seu-source-entry-utility/) (Source entry utility or stone age entry utility ), [RDI](https://www.nicklitten.com/module/rational-developer-rdi/) (Rational Developer for I) or (the modern one) [VsCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/). Nick Litten has a nice resume about this on his blog [
Windows Setup for IBM i Developers](https://www.nicklitten.com/windows-setup-ibm-developers/) 

Here, we take the Linux (Ubuntu) approach from Windows, using [WSL](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Windows_Subsystem_for_Linux) and VsCode.

What else do we need? Well, a Power Server, which  is actually a very important requirement. Since we don't have one or can't buy one, we will be using [PUB400](https://pub400.com/), which, luckily, is a free Power Server on the internet. 

Here is a list: 
- [WSL Ubuntu](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Windows_Subsystem_for_Linux)
- [ACS](https://www.ibm.com/support/pages/ibm-i-access-client-solutions)
- [VsCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/)
  - [Code for IBM I](https://codefori.github.io/docs/)
  - [IBM I project explorer](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=IBM.vscode-ibmi-projectexplorer)
  - [Remote WSL](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-wsl)
- [PUB400 User](https://pub400.com/cgi/signup.nd/start)


## Create repo

Just go to your github account and on the Repositories tab click New, create the new repo with a readme and maybe a MIT liscense if you feel like so.

Now open you WSL from VsCode using the Remote WSL plugin. Create a dir, cd into it.

```bash
mkdir $HOME/cool_ibm
cd $HOME/cool_ibm
```

For this part you need to have set up the github ssh keys. Clone the repo to the cool dir, cd into it and set up a vscode [workspace](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editing/workspaces/workspaces) (optional but is very useful).

```bash
git clone git@github.com:Your_User/Your_cool_repo.git
cd ./Your_cool_repo
```

That's it, you can do a ```git status``` to check.

## Create repo dir struct

We need a directory struct that let us have multiple ibm i projects inside the same git repo. Common sense stuff.

```bash
mkdir ./empty && mkdir ./simple && mkdir ./lil_complex
```

Add these folders to your workspace (File -> Add Folder to Workspace)

## Create empty project

So, this is the simplest ibm i project that you can make, no source code for now.

In the ibm i project explorer select the empty dir and create the configuration files, it automaitcally creates two files.

.gitignore
```bash
.logs
.evfevent
.env
```

.iproj.json
```json
{
  "description": "Empty project"
}
```

We actually don't need this .gitignore since we already have one in our repo but you can add the ignored extensions to that.

If you want to do it manually just create the iproj.json file inside a dir and the ibm i project explorer will detect it. That's it

### Commit changes

Now we need to sync the local changes with our github repo. This is the idea: Check what have changed, add it to the staged area, commit it and push it to your github repo. Very simple

```bash
git status # Take a peek
git add .  # Add all to the staged area
git commit -m "My cool ibm i project" # Commit the staged changes with a descriptive message
git push   # Send it to your github repo
```

## Create simple project

Use the ibm i project explorer to initialize the ```./simple``` project like we did with the empty one.

Lets create a dir that represents a source phisical file (IBM I Intro repo here) and cd into it.

```bash
cd ./simple
mkdir ./qrpglesrc && cd ./qrpglesrc
```

### Create first source

Add our [RPG](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IBM_RPG) (RPG intro repo here) hello world source. Note the naming convention.

```bash
touch hello.pgm.rpgle
```

Now, the code

```rpg
**free
Ctl-opt DftActGrp(*No);
Dsply 'Hello world!, edited';
*inlr = *on;
return;
```

That is our first source file. Nice!

### Commit changes

### Compile

### Run

## Create lil_complex project

### Commit changes

### Compile

### Run
